= PostRemoteLog

Author::    Samuel Williams (http://www.oriontransfer.co.nz/)
Copyright:: Copyright (C) 2009 Samuel Williams
License::   GPLv3

PostRemoteLog installs a binary tool "post-remote-log" which collects data about the machine it is being run on, and sends it via XMLRPC or SMTP. It is useful in a system administration scenario when you want to measure statistics over a large number of machines. For example, you can use it as part of login and logout scripts to record when users are logging in and logging out. Additionally, this could record the time it took to log in, and then this could be measured as a performance statistic when deciding to upgrade servers, etc.

Another usage is for recording faults. For example, QuotaCheck.app can hook into post-remote-log to send a notification when a user bypasses the low quota warning. This means that you have a record of the warning, and when the user comes to complain about corrupt files (because the file was saved without enough free space on the users home directory), you can simply tell them to go away and free up space.

PostRemoteLog is very simple and all behavior is controlled using a configuration file. This configuration file specifies how to send the log file and all other details. Here is an example of how to send a log file:

	$ echo "The user has logged in ($seconds)" > post-remote-log "User Event"
	$ echo "The user has logged out" > post-remote-log "User Event"

Included with this package is a basic rack backend which can be used to aggregate the XMLRPC messages into a directory. This can be used for testing and evaluation. However, there is a web interface under development which stores information in a database.

To use the simple backend, you need to install thin:

	$ sudo gem install thin
	$ post-remote-log-server
